---
title: "* |CSH| -Working with Dinetime Server SQL back up database"
freshdesk_id: 17000083193
category: "ConnectSmart Host Support"
folder: "ConnectSmart Server - Troubleshooting"
status: published
created: 2018-12-19
updated: 2022-12-12
views: 0
tags: ["DineTimeServer", "SQL"]
source: https://qsrautomations.freshdesk.com/a/solutions/articles/17000083193
---

# * |CSH| -Working with Dinetime Server SQL back up database

Dinetime Server sites use a local Microsoft SQL Server database.  This data also lives in the Enterprise cloud. Only a small % of tickets will involve looking into a backup copy of the local database for solutions but it important to understand how to get a backup and the basic structure.


The installed SQL Dinetime database can be found here_: C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL11.QSR01\MSSQL\DATA\Hostess.mdf_. 


Of course, we do not touch this instance and rely on backups that can be generated by the Dinetime End of Day process. However, Dinetime Portal settings determines if a nightly backup is occurring (many are not set to backup, so often I will have to set the back up in Portal and wait 24 hours for a backup action in order to then request or retrieve the SQL db back up for investigation. If I need to set the SQL db backup in Portal, I use the known product path: _C:\ProgramData\QSR Automations\ConnectSmart\HostessServer\Database_


Here is an example of the settings in Portal:


You will need _SQL Management Studio_ installed to query the SQL backup. It is on a network share drive.


It is important to remember that if you have Dinetime Server installed on your machine. You should always backup your SQL database before working with a customer’s backed up copy on your local PC. After all, you are going to be “restoring” the customer’s backup into your “Hostess” instance, getting what you need from their back up and then “restore” your backed up SQL db. If you compromise your SQL database you can always remove/re-install Dinetime and have your data sync down from Enterprise.


To load a customer SQL back up into your local Hostess instance I follow this process:


**1: Stop your local QSR Dinetime Server service from running**


**2: Open/login Microsoft SQL Management Studio and perform a database Restore**


****


**3: Find/load the customers SQL database back from where you saved it**


**4: Select “Options” and check the following boxes **


**5: The customer backup copy is now ready to be queried.  **


**---Repeat these same steps (2-4) to restore your local SQL backup before exiting (or more importantly before starting your local Dinetime service).**